Update the MTLS guide to use Cloud Endpoints (#1350)
ngrok/ngrok-docs: docs/guides/other-guides/using-tls-mutual-authentication.mdx

---
title: Using Mutual TLS (mTLS) Authentication
description: Protecting your endpoints with mutual TLS authentication (mTLS)
tags:
  - guides
  - mtls
  - tls
  - mutual authentication
  - security
---

import ConfigExample from "/src/components/ConfigExample.tsx";

> Mutual TLS Authentication (mTLS) is a network security protocol that ensures both the client _and_ server authenticate each other using digital certificates, providing encrypted and trusted communication between both parties. This is in contrast to standard TLS, where only the server is authenticated by the client.

Reviewer: let's reformat this doc to one sentence per line

By verifying the clients, the server owner is able to restrict access only to verified clients, strengthening security.

![](img/mtls-diag.png)

> This guide will walk you through enabling mTLS on your ngrok hosted endpoints using [the `terminate-tls` Traffic Policy action](/docs/traffic-policy/actions/terminate-tls/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide walks you through enabling mTLS on your ngrok hosted endpoints using [the `terminate-tls` Traffic Policy action](/docs/traffic-policy/actions/terminate-tls/).
```

## What you'll need

> Although ngrok can [automatically provision](/universal-gateway/tls-certificates) your certificates when you use standard TLS, you'll have to provide your own certificate authority (CA) for mTLS. The CA is responsible for issuing, digitally signing, and verifying the authenticity of client certificates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although ngrok can [automatically provision your certificates](/universal-gateway/tls-certificates) when you use standard TLS, you'll have to provide your own certificate authority (CA) for mTLS. 
The CA is responsible for issuing, digitally signing, and verifying the authenticity of client certificates.
```

Keep in mind:

1. ngrok uses the CA certificate to verify the client certificate.
2. Once the CA signs a client certificate, the client certificate is used to grant the client access your endpoints.

> 3. ngrok will not generate CA and client certificates for you when you use mTLS; you must generate them yourself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. ngrok does not generate CA and client certificates for you when you use mTLS; you must generate them yourself.
```

> 4. Though your CA certificate must be uploaded and hosted on the ngrok SaaS platform, your client certificates will need to be distributed to any client/device that needs access to your endpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Though your CA certificate must be uploaded and hosted on the ngrok SaaS platform, your client certificates need to be distributed to any client or device that needs access to your endpoints.
```

### Generate your own certificates

> :::note
> This step is optional if you already have a CA and client certificates.
> :::
> 
> Most organizations will have their own certificate mangement infrastructure, but this section will walk you through creating CA and client certificates for this quickstart.
> 
> We will create a new CA that will be used to sign the client certificate. This allows you to generate multiple client certificates that are trusted by the CA if needed.

Reviewer: this part is somewhat redundant - here's how I'd phrase it:

```suggestion
:::note
Most organizations have their own certificate management infrastructure, so this step is optional if you already have a CA and client certificates to work with.
:::

To begin, create a new CA that will be used to sign the client certificate, as shown below.
With this approach you can generate multiple client certificates that are trusted by the CA if needed.
```

```bash
# 1. Generate CA private key (ca.key)
openssl genpkey -algorithm RSA -out ca.key -pkeyopt rsa_keygen_bits:2048

# 2. Generate CA certificate (ca.crt)
openssl req -x509 -new -nodes -key ca.key -sha256 -days 365 -out ca.crt -subj "/CN=ExampleCA"

# 3. Generate client private key (client.key)
openssl genpkey -algorithm RSA -out client.key -pkeyopt rsa_keygen_bits:2048

# 4. Generate client certificate signing request (CSR) (client.csr)
openssl req -new -key client.key -out client.csr -subj "/CN=ExampleClient"

# 5. Generate client certificate (client.crt)
openssl x509 -req -in client.csr -CA ca.crt -CAkey ca.key -CAcreateserial -out client.crt -days 365 -sha256
```

> These commands will result in five new files: `ca.key`, `ca.crt`, `client.key`, `client.csr`, and `client.key`. You will use the contents of `ca.crt` in your traffic policy to validate requests via `curl` which will use `client.key` and `client.crt`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These commands result in five new files: `ca.key`, `ca.crt`, `client.key`, `client.csr`, and `client.key`. 
You will use the contents of `ca.crt` in your traffic policy to validate requests via `curl`, which, in turn, uses `client.key` and `client.crt`.
```

> ## 1. Create a Traffic Policy

Reviewer: I believe this should be lowercase since it's already been mentioned and the default for headers is sentence case

```suggestion
## 1. Create a traffic policy
```

Using the CA certificate generated in the previous step, you can specify the `mutual_tls_certificate_authorities` field in a traffic policy to trust the CA that issued the client certificate.

<ConfigExample
	snippetText={null}
	showLineNumbers={true}
	jsonMetastring="{5-12}"
	yamlMetastring="{4-10}"
	config={{
		on_tcp_connect: [
			{
				actions: [
					{
						type: "terminate-tls",
						config: {
							mutual_tls_certificate_authorities: [
								"-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\n... certificate ...\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----",
							],
						},
					},
				],
			},
		],
	}}
/>

You may also optionally [upload the CA certificate](https://dashboard.ngrok.com/tls-cert-authorities) in the ngrok dashboard and use its ID in the `mutual_tls_certificate_authorities` array.

> ## 2. Start an endpoint with the Traffic Policy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 2. Start an endpoint with the traffic policy
```

```bash
ngrok http 8080 --url terminate-tls-example.ngrok.app --traffic-policy-file /path/to/policy.yml
```

## 3. Test your endpoint

Test out that everything works by making a request to your endpoint using the `--cert` and `--key` flags to specify the client certificate and private key.

```bash
curl --cert client.crt --key client.key https://terminate-tls-example.ngrok.app
```

## Setting up mTLS with Edges

> Edges are deprecated. It is not recommended to set up mTLS with Edges.

Reviewer: to be specific about who's doing the recommending

```suggestion
Edges are deprecated. 
We do not recommend setting up mTLS with Edges.
```

Reviewer: Cool, I don't have a strong opinion on this so if the pattern is to use passive voice elsewhere then let's stick with it. If we ever want to change the repeated copy then we can apply it to all docs at once. 

When it comes to documentation I prefer to avoid all mentions of "we" or "us" in general—we should always be focused on "you" the reader/developer. "You" don't care about what "we" are up to, and "we" literally can't do things with you (❌ "In this guide, we're going to do X" vs ✅ "This guide shows you how to do X"). You just want to know how to use our thing to solve your problem. That's a style rule I'm strongly in favor of.

One notable exception I would make to this rule is for recommendations like this, where the passive voice just feels kind of awkward to me. I guess it relates to the overall voice we're aiming for in the docs: "we don't recommend" just sounds more personal and informal (in a good way) vs. "it is not recommended" which comes off as cold and sterile to me.
